How VulnDB Is Helping Organizations Prevent Future Ransomware Attacks For over 300,000 vulnerabilities, Flashpoint now provides our Ransomware Likelihood score. This capability can only be found in VulnDB, the most comprehensive source of vulnerability intelligence available.The post How VulnDB Is Helping Organizations Prevent Future Ransomware Attacks appeared first on Flashpoint. Blog VulnDB Is Helping Organizations Prevent Future Ransomware AttacksSHARE THIS:   Flashpoint Team November 10, 2022 Table Of ContentsTable of ContentsVulnerability intelligence and ransomware preventionFlashpoint 2019s predictive vulnerability ransomware modelFlashpoint and VulnDB, the ultimate vulnerability intelligence solutionBest-in-class vulnerability intelligence 201cFor over 300,000 vulnerabilities, Flashpoint now provides our Ransomware Likelihood score. 201dSince ransomware 2019s introduction to the world in 1989, it has evolved into a devastating weapon that is wielded by threat actors and Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs). According to the CyberSecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), 14 of 16 critical US infrastructure sectors have experienced a ransomware attack, and in a recent FBI report, ransomware events increased by 62 percent compared to 2021.Even though the US government has increased efforts to improve security in federal agencies and in the private sector, ransomware continues to wreak havoc. Further demonstrating the pervasive and lucrative business of ransomware is a recent report from the US Treasury, which finds that ransomware-related payments cost banks $1.2B in 2021, nearly double the previous year.This prompts the question: How can organizations get in front of ransomware attacks and prevent them in the first place?Vulnerability intelligence and ransomware preventionCyber extortion events can be prevented if you have the right intelligence 2014timely, relevant, actionable data that can bolster an organization 2019s ability to defend its attack surfaces, such as vulnerabilities. Well-versed threat actors and APTs are actively exploiting vulnerabilities found in end-user software and third-party libraries and dependencies to conduct their ransomware campaigns. Therefore, it 2019s crucial for vulnerability management teams to identify vulnerable assets, prioritize vulnerabilities, and then inform security teams to patch them in a timely manner.However, organizations relying on publicly-available vulnerability data will be unable to triage effectively since CVE/NVD is unaware of nearly a third of known risk. In addition, the public source infamously lacks context and actionable details 2014ultimately causing security teams to squander valuable resources.CISA does on occasion detail APT activity and knowing which vulnerabilities have been used in previous attacks is valuable. However, just having that knowledge is neither actionable nor timely. To collect that data, an organization must first become the victim of a ransomware event, and then the attack must be disclosed. Only then can other organizations take action. Instead, there is a better way to proactively take measures against future ransomware campaigns 2014comprehensive vulnerability intelligence, and Flashpoint 2019s new tool that is dedicated to help prevent ransomware attacks.Flashpoint 2019s predictive vulnerability ransomware modelFlashpoint 2019s vulnerability intelligence research team has created a first-of-its-kind ransomware prediction model 2014that is capable of predicting the likelihood that a particular vulnerability would be used in ransomware operations. For over 300,000 vulnerabilities, Flashpoint now provides our Ransomware Likelihood score. This capability can only be found in VulnDB, the most comprehensive source of vulnerability intelligence available.Equipped with Flashpoint 2019s robust metadata and numerous prioritization metrics, Vulnerability Management teams are now equipped with the information needed to better prioritize and take action on the vulnerabilities likely to be used in ransomware and other attacks.The model takes a vulnerability, as well as newly disclosed issues 2014 using predictive analysis to determine the likelihood that it will be used in future ransomware operations. With this information, security teams can prioritize remediating those vulnerabilities first, better protecting their organization as a whole.Flashpoint and VulnDB, the ultimate vulnerability intelligence solutionCombined with the added context delivered by the Flashpoint Intelligence Platform 2014including primary source data across illicit communities, threat actors TTPs, and malware families, VulnDB becomes the go-to source for vulnerability intelligence and management. VulnDB 2019s independently researched vulnerability database covers over 300,000 vulnerabilities (of which 96,000+ are not included in CVE/NVD) and 60+ fields of advanced metadata such as exploitability, attack location, solution information, and now, ransomware likelihood. With VulnDB 2019s best-in-class vulnerability intelligence, Flashpoint gives organizations the data and insights needed to detect, prioritize and remediate the vulnerabilities that matter most to their organization.Best-in-class vulnerability intelligenceGet Flashpoint on your side. To learn more about Flashpoint 2019s ransomware prediction model and VulnDB, reach out for a free trial.Begin your free trial today.Get a Free TrialContact SalesThe post How VulnDB Is Helping Organizations Prevent Future Ransomware Attacks appeared first on Flashpoint.
